#author ZC Miao
#title Othello Installation Guide (Ver 0.2.1)

<contents>


* 1. Introduction

Othello is a classic strategy game, also known as Reversi. Its objective is to
finish the game with the greater amount of pieces (circles) of the same color.

This version of othello game supported these features:

 - Cross Platformed (Currently support Linux and win32)

 - Support writing ai plugin using C++, and also support writing ai plugin
   in python script directly.

 - Support network game.

 - Support interface theme.


* 2. Install from source under Linux

** 2.1. Libraries dependented

Before installation, you should make sure that the following packages have
been installed on your system:

 - wxWidget 2.6 or Higher(Tested under wxGTK port)
 - python 2.3 or higher along with its development files
 - Boost::thread Library
 - Boost::python Library

** 2.2. Download source

You can find the latest source tarball from here :
http://othello-game.sourceforge.net/en/Download.html

** 2.3. Compile and Install

If you want everythings to be compiled and installed :

<example>
$ ./configure –-prefix=/path/to/install/root
$ make && make install
</example>

*Notes:*

 - If you do not want the python support, use '--disable-python' option of
configure script.

 - If you do not want the command line version of othello, use
'--disable-cli' configuration option.

 - If you do not want the wxWidget GUI version of othello, use
'--disable-wx' configuration option.

 - If your boost libraries is shipped with a specific suffix, such as
   libboost_python-mt-1_34_1.so. You can run configuraton like this : 
<example>
$ ./configure --prefix=/path/to/install/root LIBBOOST_SUFFIX=-mt-1_34_1
</example>


Now, if everything goes well, you'll get :
<example>
othello-0.2.1/
|-- bin
|   |-- othello-cli
|   |-- wxothello
|-- include
|   |-- othello
|   |   |-- 0.2.1
|   |   |   |-- othello
|   |   |   |   |-- board.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- game.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- intl_config.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- intl.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- networkgame.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- observer.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- player.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- player_plugin.hpp
|   |   |   |   |-- player_plugin_manager.hpp
|-- lib
|   |-- libothello.la
|   |-- libothello-python.la
|   |-- libothello-python.so
|   |-- libothello-python.so.2
|   |-- libothello-python.so.2.0.1
|   |-- libothello.so
|   |-- libothello.so.2
|   |-- libothello.so.2.0.1
|   |-- othello
|   |   |-- 0.2
|   |   |   |-- players
|   |   |-- 0.2.1
|   |   |   |-- players
|   |   |   |   |-- lowai.so
|   |   |   |   |-- python
|   |   |   |   |   |-- silverfish.py
|   |   |   |   |-- python.so
|   |-- pkgconfig
|   |   |-- othello.pc
|-- share
|   |-- locale
|   |   |-- zh_CN
|   |   |   |-- LC_MESSAGES
|   |   |   |   |-- othello.mo
|   |-- wxothello
|   |   |-- 0.2.1
|   |   |   |-- frame.xrc
|   |   |   |-- themes
|   |   |   |   |-- default
|   |   |   |   |   |-- background.png
|   |   |   |   |   |-- black.png
|   |   |   |   |   |-- white.png
|   |   |   |   |-- iagno
|   |   |   |   |   |-- background.png
|   |   |   |   |   |-- black.png
|   |   |   |   |   |-- white.png
|   |   |   |-- wxothello.ico
|   |   |   |-- wxothello.png
`
22 directories, 33 files
</example>

"wxothello" is the wx GUI frontend of the game.

"othello-cli" is a command line interface alternative version usually used
to test ai plugins.

Dot so files under <approot>/lib/othello/version/players is ai plugins
writen in c++.

The "python.so" c++ plugin can read python ai plugins under the below python
directory, such as "silverfish.py".

** 2.4. Configurations

By click menu settings->preference :

 - You can choose your interface language. By default it is setting according
   your system language setting.

 - The application theme, currently two themes is available : default and
   iagno.

 - Plugins directory. If you want to write your own python ai plugins, you
   can just add a directory here and put your python script in the python
   subdirecoty of that directory you added.

 - Game server TCP port

 - Game speed

The configurations are stored in $HOME/.wxothello file.

** 2.5. Play

Theres's three game mode : Single Machine Game(Ctrl+1),  Game Server
(Ctrl+2), Game Client(Ctrl+3).

Before player the game, you need to choose player type firstly by clicking
menu game->players. Currently you can choose:

 - human

   The human player.

 - null

   This player is used when network game for waiting remote player to join.

 - lowai

   A C++ sample plugin, which is at <pluginsdir>/lowai.so (Source code is in
   source tarball).

 - python/SilverFish

   A Python sample plugin, which is at <pluginsdir>/python/silverfish.py.


Now you can simply click game->start to rock the game. 


* 3. Install on Windows

** 3.1. Before installation

To use the complete feature of software, you should have Python 2.4.x
preinstalled on your windows system. The newest version of Python 2.4.x
serials is 2.4.4 whic is available here:
http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.msi
Just download and install the file is enough.

** 3.2. Downloading othello win32 version

Check out the latest win32 version from here
http://othello-game.sourceforge.net/en/Download.html

** 3.3. Installation

This win32 version is a extract-and-run software. Click the wxothello.exe
to launch the main program.

** 3.4. Configurations and Play

The configurations and usage is the same as its linux version.

The configurations is stored at registry key: <HKCU>/Software/wxothello


* 4. More about Othello

Project Home Page : http://othello-game.sourceforge.net/

Project Page : http://sourceforge.net/projects/othello-game/

